The afternoon session of this the second day of the hearings is about to begin before
the Senate Subcommittee on Prominent Investigation, Senator McCarthy's own committee.
All over the Senate, as we move himself completely from the committee, was a duration of this
inquiry.
His twice as chairman and tells temporarily, by Senator Charlie Munn, Republican himself
to call out.
As you as well as big, Mahogaday panel room is again crowded over-drawing with some 450
spectators, the principals in the affair, and close to 200 reporters and photographers.
Some of these spectators arrived at 730 this morning, three hours before the show began,
many were standing.
Today's chief witness is Secretary of the Army, Robert T. Stephen, the chief antagonist
of Senator McCarthy in this dispute.
But now as we begin this afternoon session, we understand that Secretary Stephen is going
to step aside temporarily only so that another witness can be heard briefly.
He is Jack Lucas, an employee in the Secretary of the Army's office in the Pentagon.
Lucas is going to testify above listening in and recording a telephone call, which Senator
McCarthy made to Secretary Stephen's office last November 7 on the subject of G. David
Shai, who had just then been inducted into the Army.
You'll hear the Committee Council, Ray H. Jenkins questioning Lucas, about that telephone
conversation after Chairman Munn gabbled the Committee as the hearing session to order.
It's quite likely that before Secretary of the Army, Stephen finishes his testimony here,
and I might say it's quite likely to be prolonged testimony that considerable time will be spent
on cross-examination in going into this matter of the recorded telephone conversation
of last November 7 between Senator McCarthy and Secretary of the Army.
Just before the hearing took its noon time recess, Stephen's related his version of that
telephone call from the senator and said that McCarthy privately vetoed a request which
had been made earlier by his own chief counsel, Roy M. Cohn, seeking special favors in the
Army for David Shai.
Shai, now a private in the Army, was a consultant on McCarthy's Committee serving without pay.
The chief counsel of the Committee under McCarthy, that is, while Senator McCarthy was Chairman
Cohn, allegedly brought heavy questions to get special treatment for young Shai.
There's this senator himself, according to the Army Secretary.
Then he testified Secretary Stephen in that phone call, the senator reversed the saying
that he had been taking up to that time.
Stephen's courted McCarthy is saying that Shai was, quote, one of the few things he had
trouble about with Roy Cohn.
Senator McCarthy also said, according to Secretary Stephen's testimony, that Cohn's
off-set is Ben Shai, off to be a general and operate from a penthouse on the Waldorf
Astoria.
We notice that as the afternoon session prepares to get underway, that's the chairman,
Senator Mutt, the South Dakota, has given up the class H3, which he's due to yesterday
for a gavle, and now has obtained for himself and honest to goodness gavle.
He's ready to use it now to thank the order, as soon as the large group of photographers
directly in front of the table finish taking their pictures.
Even more people turned up for the day, as you're hearing, and were on hand for the
opener yesterday, according to the police reports we get, but there weren't merely as
many VIPs aging in ahead of the line today.
So more of the, what should we call, the notorious godia, but still there were about a hundred
of them, left standing outside, and a few were admitted to standing room only, but others
were not able to get a look here.
Senator McCarthy, you've got to pick hands from the audience when he made his first entrance
yesterday at the opening day session, which the door today, Justice Chairman Mutt, was
warning the crowd that they must not demonstrate.
So perhaps that was another factor in that matter, was that the photographers, right,
Mr. Jean-Mutt, McCarthy, wasn't with the photographer this morning, but I notice she has
just come in now with the senator, and it's being helped to her seat.
Mr. McCarthy is still on the conscience as result of an ankle of a plate that she suffered
in a taxi cab accident in New York, several weeks ago.
In the morning session today, the Army Chief Counsel, Joseph and Well, say Boston Attorney,
complained about it, played it, because he didn't have a microphone, and he said he wasn't
having much luck sharing one that was used by Army Secretary Steven, that they were
at the table.
So he asked Chairman Mutt to use what he called once that power to see if another microphone
could be obtained.
White Mutt said with a laugh that he didn't know how much power I had in this field.
A minute or two later it's developed that he didn't have very much because he had to tell
this to Well, so that he's just expected to get him a microphone.
And speaking of Senator McCarthy and these receptionists that he's been getting from the crowd
here, I've noticed that a number of spectators here are wearing red-white and blue lapels
and a post-inflection, they found the legend, I'm from McCarthy.
They're seating arrangements I might add here.
Apparently, just Senator McCarthy off from what was, I think, a rather favorite committee
routine of his for some months have thought about a life of little joke.
The Senator from Wisconsin usually makes quite a big show of pretending to be suffocated
by the spokes from the ever-president height for the guard of Senator Mutt.
So in the past, frequently Senator McCarthy has handed over to Senator Mutt what's
supposed to be better brand of the guards.
And we call it once he rang in of the guard, bearing the assertive one of a federalizer
company.
And later, when Senator Mutt went up, he saw Gates, Senator McCarthy, for best or discovering
the label.
There seems to be quite a bit of confusion in the room now, but Senator Mutt is finally
obtained some semblance of order from the photographers.
All the committee members are in their place.
The committee council, Ray Jenkins is talking over months' shoulders of Senator Mutt's
own, the ranking Democratic member of the committee.
And Senator Mutt has the gabbled toys looking around, start-up like a starter in a crew
race waiting to see that everyone's in position before he shoots off the gun.
They're always at these delays of a start-up hearing because of the abundance of photographers
and the ever-president of Teal of just one more, sometimes, Secretary Mutt, who is a very
even temper who really a jovial person, gets a better noise, but now the gavel is banging
at Senator Mutt's feet.
Here is an announcement to make first of all, Attorney Senator Fortjack, who is attending
the General of the French and his company early after the committee will be back with it,
soon after the beginning of the afternoon session.
Second announcement is that some say question of locality seems to have arisen under Section
6-05 of the Federal Communications Administration for the Title 47 of the Act dealing with Federal
Communications.
That is the assumption that unauthorized publications are used of communications.
A question which we believe the subject is going to with its counsel in executive session
to be sure that we know exactly the grounds that which we are operating, it has then decided
not to proceed with the interrogation of Mr. Lucas at this time, nor to proceed with Mr.
Stephen from the standpoint of any question dealing with the monitor's conversation,
but to temporarily dismiss Mr. Lucas and to ask Mr. Stephen to return to the stand,
and we will interrogate other faces.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, I am Mr. D. Mutt, I am the D. Mutt, I assume that the legal question
has disappeared because the senator has intended to the publication and therefore an all legal
question remains.
The lawyer has done the subcommittee seem to be in some doubt as to the legal question.
Here we spend our time to consent publicly for the publication of that communication, then
it is my opinion, Mr. Chairman, that we may proceed with Mr. Lucas.
And I think it is unauthorized by Senator Barcaiwi to now make some public announcements with
respect to whether he does or does not consent.
I would like to do that.
Senator Barcai, as I do the good to do, my position is that if we publish one conversation
in Mr. Stephen and Senator Barcaiwi, then we must publish all of the conversations with Mr.
Stephen and Barcaiwi and the members of the committee.
In other words, I don't think Mr. Stephen can be in the position of selecting one conversation
and using left and hiding all others.
I would like to proceed with the interrogations of Mr. Lucas this time to find out just how
many conversations they have monitored.
For example, Mr. Jenkins, I know there are a number of conversations with other members of the committee.
The interpretation of those conversations with the different, I know, using the words of Mr.
Stephen's in line, I feel they were the purpose of finding to keep up from receiving with the investigation.
Mr. Stephen's, I know, it is an interpretable conversation differently.
And I would like to, this time, if we could, I don't feel strongly about it, certainly will
abide by the chair's ruling.
I would like to get Mr. Lucas a picture of just how they go about this monitoring,
what they do is by mechanical device, whatever, whether they have verbating, verbatim,
the transcripts of the conversation with all of the members of the committee on down the line.
I think the chair makes a good point and he says that you have to do exactly the same thing
with the conversation beside brother, not just the brothers, but the right hand answer to your question, Mr. Jenkins,
again I say the same thing.
I do think that all of the conversations regard up to other, there's a violation of all that's taken
and this may be made of one of the lectures but not just one of the conversations on a specific date with Mr.
Chairman.
I quite agree with Mr. Senator and all monitors, conversations will be made available to the committee council.
And he, he, he, he, he considers the material to this, he will fire, they will be introduced in evidence,
provided the person on the other end of the wire, contempt to their being admitted as I understand
that Senator now consent.
No, no, no, Mr. Chairman.
You're not going to do that.
You're not going to, you're not going to select conversation.
He can't.
Just a minute, just a minute.
You're not going to select conversation.
We introduce one conversation in regard to this communist investigation.
We are going to introduce all of them.
I think the chair is a very concerned, I'm not the chairman but that is my position.
And I, my position is that no, no one person can keep any conversation out of this lecture.
Once we start going to do this, Mr. Chairman, may I say this?
I think Mr. Wump is a very concerned.
I think the senator gets under strict measure.
We are not choosing a disabled, what one goes in evidence.
We are saying they will all be offered to committee council.
And Mr. Jacobs may put any or all in the he considers material.
So long as he either has the consent of the man on the other end of the telephone
or the committee orders the witness to state them irrespective of the consent.
Mr. Chairman, in order to clarify the question, it is my opinion.
That all conversations between the respective parties for this controversy
are properly admitted as evidence provided they are relevant.
Irrespective of the consent of these parties, that all monitors conversation
and all transcriptions of monitors conversation are likewise properly admitted
provided that party on the other end gives his consent.
The extended democracy does now unfiligate the deal his consent.
Does he admission of a transcription of this monitor conversation of November 7th?
Then I am ready to proceed with the introduction of proof.
I do not know what to come in to me.
Mr. Jacobs, I would like to ask you a question.
I know what is the nature of the censor.
I am here to ask one of the first things that I have planned to do.
I have had to have done.
As I said, I think that we are very thankful for that.
If we find the laminated introduction of it, I propose the first qualifying.
And I say that change of democracy is entitled to supplement my examination
and I think you are a senator.
Yes, the senator does not consent.
They will then become a matter for the committee to take up any second.
That would be my view, sir.
Yes, sir.
It is a country where you call the President.
Mr. Lucas.
Mr. Lucas, you are the soleilist for the testimony you are about to give as a excuse.
The whole truth is that nothing but the truth don't have to go.
I so am the senator.
Mr. Jacobs, you may remain in full favor.
My name is John J. Lucas Jr.
What is your official position with the Army?
Are we Mr. Stevens?
A flightman clerk to the Secretary of the Army.
How long have you sent a appointment for the Secretary of the Army?
Since December of 1949, on full time, what are your duties?
In general, to help the Secretary in connection with his appointment and his telephone call.
Are you an experienced reporter?
That is, I mean, are you experienced in the thinking of a conversation or a dictation in short-hand?
Yes, sir.
How much experience do you have?
I went to a short-hand store for about five or six months.
What was that?
In about 1934.
And then, sometime after I left, sure you ever been a court reporter.
Not in an actual court.
Have you ever held a position in which you were required to take dictation?
Yes, sir.
And to make reports of theory.
How much experience have you had in it?
That particular line of work, Mr. Luther.
During the war, I was with a joint chief of staff for about three years.
And I sat in on meetings of committees of the joint chiefs of staff.
And took notes with the proceedings and made transcripts.
I'll ask you whether or not you consider yourself an expert in taking notes from dictation
and in transcribing those notes to type.
Yes, sir.
I won the 200 Greg Diamond medal years ago.
What the preliminary or academic education do you have?
Four years of college.
You are a college graduate, yes, sir.
Are you able to state positive, Mr. Luther?
And I, of course, know that you remember that you are unrolled.
Are you able to state positive that a report you took, if you did take one on November 7,
1853, doing a telephone conversation and taking the viewing shorthand,
while accurately worked for work for Baton, set down in shorthand on your notes,
it was substantially accurate.
You are not the same as I said that it was accurate, word for word, verbatim.
Is that correct?
I cannot say that it was absolutely word for word verbatim.
I may have a word here and there.
I am not a interpretation of any of that.
Are you the man who is making yourself the jet,
whether or not he was substantially accurate or otherwise?
How do you say it was substantially accurate?
Yes, sir.
I think it does ask that you are making yourself the soul and the excuse of just how much it's missed the mark,
how much it came to getting a full accurate detail verbatim report.
Is that correct?
Yes, sir.
Then you won't say as you sit there now.
That is, you have, I think, a transcribe that you're not, besides.
Yes, sir.
You will not say as you sit there now.
That's your transcribe.
The garden we get to meet here has suddenly come up with new lighters,
makes it impossible to see the witness.
I wonder if we could have that light over there.
Turn down the sun to hold.
Just about two seconds ago came on, so we've been doing pretty well without,
and I hope we can continue to do that.
Mr. Chair, once again, that I ask Mr. James to not go too swiftly on his next question.
Let's witness the answer if you will, sir.
I think if you go a little more slowly, you perhaps get answers that are more accurate.
Mr. Lucas, my question now is this.
That as you sit there now at this moment,
with your transcription of this telephonic conversation of November 7th before you,
you will not tell this committee.
That it is an absolutely perpy record, record, record, word-for-word,
and verbatim of an alleged telephone conversation between Senator McCarty and Mr. Steven.
Is that correct?
It is not a word-for-word recording, sir.
Face the further examination of this witness to the chair.
Did I understand your last statement, Mr. Lucas, that it is not an act of its word-for-word verbatim account?
I drop a few words from the conversation and making the note.
A very few words I have to leave.
May I inquire about just how it is monitoring done?
You listen on the telephone recording and then play back to you or how do you get this text message?
I listen on the telephone and at that time write notes in direct short answer.
As they are taking place?
Yes, sir.
Is that your full-time house, down here monitoring telephone calls and that site?
Is that your primary duties and responsibilities?
It was one of my main duties.
I also arranged, or helped with Secretary and just with his appointment.
Is it customary procedure when telephone calls are received?
The modern call of the Hill offices of Congressman and Senator,
is for you to be called in to monitor those conversations with Mr. Lucas.
The assistant exceptional for a senior who has worked out Senator McCarty and the incident.
That process is the part of my duty, sir.
All calls coming from the office of Senator McCarty.
All calls coming in from the department of the best switchboard on which the Secretary of the Army speaks,
unless the Secretary of the Army asks me not to let me.
So it is standing up waiting for me?
Yes, sir.
I'll engage.
You sit there with your shirt hand.
No, sir.
You get calls which don't for some particular reason.
I'm glad the Secretary says, don't listen to this one, which might be a security case of such a threat.
Is standard normal procedures issued and monitored these calls which come to you,
regardless of when you come home?
Yes, sir.
It has been a normal procedure for years.
There is one other exception.
For example, I do not monitor telephone calls from our width members of the Secretary's family.
Well, I, you said it was a misunderstanding.
Sir, sir, sir, sir, sir, sir, sir, I'm trying to get you standing up waiting for me.
When did this procedure begin?
I know many of my colleagues are going to be confused.
These hearings are not going to be clear as a kid.
I know that you mean how long has it been done in the office of the Secretary of the Army?
We are sorry, you have to look.
How long have you been doing it?
I've been doing it since the time, well, I started doing the time of Secretary Royal.
About like you, sir.
About, well, in 1949, I was a substitute for a Secretary shot my predecessor.
And he also listened on phone conversations and I understand his predecessor did.
Sir, here are phone calls.
These charges in 1949, that is spending up to operating procedures.
Yes, sir.
Your duties in that connection are limited to listening to phone calls to the office of the Secretary of the Army or the other monitor can call that you also listen.
My duty is to monitor the Secretary's call.
I have no other questions. I'm sorry.
As I understand that has been no change whatsoever in procedures and practice with respect to taking notes on telephone calls that you began in 1949 or 1949.
There have been some changes, yes, sir.
What changes have been made under Secretary Steven?
No change made under Secretary Steven.
In other words, you are now following the same procedures and practices with respect to that part of your duties that you followed under the Secretary Steven's predecessor.
Yes, sir.
Are you saying these notes you made to your hand, note you took of the conversation, are not complete?
They do not record each word that is spoken by the part is spoken.
So I attempt to make them just as complete as I can, but the conditions are such that I cannot swear that they are word-for-word-compliant.
Let me ask you if you undertake to get every word or you simply make sufficient notes so that you will have the information that will enable you to carry out your further duties with respect to the conversation.
That's what I try my best to do.
You try your best to get enough information from the conversation and to make no summits.
So for your guidance, thereafter would respect the dissatisfaction and information to get the further services rendered.
Is that correct?
Yes, sir, that is correct.
Now, all the okayies of this conversation that is in question, were you given any special instructions or any different instructions in the making of that telephone conversation to any others that you were taking in the portion of the conversation?
In the course of your duties along with that time, no special instructions.
Were you particularly alerted to be on the phone at that time and take notes of this conversation?
Did the second day say that you get on the phone and take notes of this?
No, sir.
You did it in the normal course of duty.
Yes, sir.
But you cannot say that you got it full of complete enactment.
That is correct, sir.
I cannot say that.
Let's damn on the side of the slide.
Here.
Well, it's not very much under any other questions.
We'll be here on this point, except for the principles of the law.
Let me ask this, however, uh...
Mr. Wilkins, do you have an opinion as to whether or not the words that you may have dropped in the course of the conversation
and not step down with him anyway, modify or distort or substantially change the meaning and the substance of the conversation at the time?
My opinion is that I put down in my shorthand notebook, practically all of the conversation and the little that I may have met would have not altered the substance of what I did just now.
You think even the best before you can take down perfectly everything that is said from two answers?
No, I do not think it is possible to be 100 percent accurate in taking conversations over the telephone, apart from that matter in a large, round-table conference.
You can make this.
I don't think that's absolutely appropriate if I can get the procedure.
I will use Marker a conversation.
Do you have an opinion as to which sounds the words spoken by the parties on each end of the line?
Where's the words?
Where's the right substance?
From Washington, the mutual network is bringing you a new on-the-spot coverage of the McCarthy Army hearing.
Our coverage will continue after this 10-second pause for station identification.
This is the mutual broadcasting system.
Seven ten on your dial.
W-O-I. New York.
Back in Washington and mutual coverage is the McCarthy Army hearing before the Senate's permanent subcommittee on investigation.
Senator Jackson is now questioning the witness John L. Lucas.
The beginning of the call.
The where the physics of the call has been turned.
I accept to get every word, word for, word.
Now let me say you as now.
What do you mean by that?
You mean that all human beings are thought of all of them and make an error on the word?
That's what you mean.
I mean that.
I mean also, if there may be a noise in the room, I may not be able to hear it perfectly.
I may be distracted.
Somebody might come up and try to stop them.
Well, if that's true of the telephone conversation in question now before the committee,
do you have any recollections of whether you...
Do you need a certain word that you may have left out words or is it that you...
I'm trying to say you may have.
If you say five or seven minutes, you must have...
I can say five or seven words that I left out of two words.
Why did you be bothered with this?
I don't know if it's my third.
It's me.
I don't know exactly.
Did anyone have to delete them?
No, I know.
What am I sugary?
Because that's what I marked in my books that indicated that I had as a spot where I did.
You made a note that when you went along and connected with the taking down of the conversation in short-hand,
you made a mark that I have some other notification at that point.
Yes.
They were all from the human complete trans-fifth of us.
Is that right?
Yes.
I'm going to give that one.
I'm asking what this particular telephone conversation again.
The...
The two have a certain word for answer.
They have a certain meaning.
So reading the telephone, they have certain things.
I'm not going to say they were in the body of the call.
They're not in the reading.
Thank you.